breaking news tonight the protests from
Maine to Oregon demanding their states
reopen the virus doesn't justify while
it parks and beaches massive crowds
drawn out by sunny weather police
warning them to stay apart and the new
fear from workers going back to work
will they get sick lockdown the western
city now seals office cases surged no
one allowed in or out police stopping
cars at the city limits shortage fears
major supermarket chains now limiting
how much meat you can buy as the price
of beef and poultry go up race for a
cure the new White House plan to
fast-track vaccines how realistic is it
the new warning for parents the rare and
mysterious complication from coronavirus
in children they call the code and the
two minutes of CPR on her researchers
urgently meeting tonight to find out
what's causing it proof of life the new
video North Korea put out of leader Kim
jong-un does this and the mystery of his
whereabouts and I salute the military
flyovers across the country today the
Armed Forces to saluting those battling
the coronavirus on the ground
[Music]
this is NBC Nightly News with Jose
diaz-balart good evening we've entered a
divisive new phase in the fight against
coronavirus anger is boiling over in
some states governor's at odds with
residents over plans to reopen what's at
stake the devastating economic toll and
the possible loss of even more lives as
risk as crowds skip social distancing
today on the National Mall and shopping
centers open across the country but what
are business owners doing to keep you
safe our reporters across the country
are covering these stories from every
angle and we begin tonight with NBC's
Erin McLaughlin in Los Angeles tonight
across the country outraged protesters
demanding States reopen their economies
in Maine Oregon and Kentucky it's in
God's hands what happens to money in my
house this following Friday's protests
in California
defiance Laguna Beach more protesters
after a judge upheld governor Gavin
Newsom ordered to close Orange County
beaches let us have our stay back enough
the move in response to these images
from last weekend
doctors horrified he shouldn't be
anywhere in those crowds in Huntington
Beach signs they're abiding by the
governor's order as police kick people
out Friday California's capital 30
arrests as protesters face off with
police
protesters rail at restrictions
elsewhere the virus is rampant inside a
county with 30 percent of New Mexico's
infections a locked out no one's allowed
in or out of the town of gallop on
governor's orders to slow the spread we
don't want you to get contaminated at
the same time if you are container we
don't want you to bring it to us so but
they have the main highways block
basically to encourage people just did
enough to not come in residents waiting
in line for hours to get into the town I
am in line right now to get through so
believe they let me in so here we go so
some people had to turn around
they're turning people around New Jersey
the daily death toll exceeded New York
two days in a row so this weekend
Jersey's beaches parks and golf courses
open social distancing rules in place
definitely had six feet of distance and
in Georgia the first weekend without a
stay at home order Atlanta's most
popular Park totally packed
while in Massachusetts the third hardest
hit state to state parks had to be
closed
the mayor requiring residents there to
wear masks in public starting next week
and in New York State assigned the worst
may be over the Central Park field
hospital days away from being dismantled
but as the weather warms worried
thousand cops deployed into parks across
the city to enforce social distancing
people are coming out and we expect
people to come out but we don't want any
organized activity we don't want crowds
gathering we don't want someone
barbecuing with their family and friends
Aaron how long is that City New Mexico
under lockdown orders
well it's part of that extraordinary
order jose residents are being told to
stay at home allowed out for emergencies
only set to expire on Monday
Jose Erin McLaughlin in Los Angeles
thank you this is the first weekend some
malls and stores reopened across the
country and in some places customers
crowded to get in but it is not business
as usual Blaine Alexander reports now on
the new normal uh Nora is the first
weekend without a shelter in place order
shoppers are taking full advantage
despite many stores remaining closed at
Atlanta's Greenbrier mall many crowded
this shoe store for a new release but at
this outlet mall in North Georgia only a
trickle of shoppers for Friday's
reopening I mean you've never seen out a
mall with just a few people who wouldn't
get in and out yes Georgia is one of 34
states that have either lifted
restrictions or announced plans to start
scaling back over the next two weeks
almost all in phases in Tennessee
restaurants and retail stores can only
operate at 50% capacity same with
Florida starting Monday barber shops and
salons in West Virginia can serve
clients by appointment only and no
waiting inside and here in Georgia as
people fill Atlanta's popular Piedmont
Park by the hundreds dining restaurants
must limit table seating to parties of
six it took 60 man hours to make the
changes for this at urban body fitness
in Atlanta workout spaces are taped off
every other cardio machine closed and
only a fraction of customers allowed
inside so you come in wash your hands
come over to the front desk
we take your temperature you sign your
code release owner Radford slough
delayed his initial reopening date
because many of his employees did not
feel comfortable coming back then I went
okay if you're not comfortable that's
enough okay so let's backpedal we're not
we don't have to open now operating with
a bare-bones team we're all gonna have
concerns and we'll say that again but
you've got to be comfortable that what
we've done is going to help keep you
healthy and membership healthy Blaine
joins us from Atlanta Blaine we're gonna
see even more malls opening in the next
couple days
absolutely Jose both here in Georgia and
elsewhere in fact Lenox Square is one of
those that will be opening its doors on
Monday now Simon Property Group the
nation's biggest mall owner plans to
open nearly 50 moles by the start of the
week
Jose Blaine Alexander in Atlanta thank
you as cities and states open back up
President Trump is doubling down on
quickly finding a cure for coronavirus
Kelly O'Donnell has the latest details
on his aggressive new plan
for a self-described wartime president
victory over kovat 19 equals a vaccine I
hope we can have a vaccine and we're
going to fast-track it
like you've never seen before adding
trump style branding the administration
launched operation warped speed a
multi-billion dollar research and
manufacturing effort to shorten the
typical year plus vaccine development
timeline the goal is ambitious producing
patient ready vaccines as early as
January though officials stressed there
is no guarantee we want to go quickly
but we want to make sure it's safe and
it's effective I think that is doable
officials tell NBC News the project
whittled down 93 potential vaccines for
more than 80 pharmaceutical companies
next 14 drugs considered most promising
will undergo more testing narrowed again
for clinical trials this month officials
say the work could result in three or
four vaccines for wide use I have never
seen in my career a group of scientists
so single-mindedly focused on a single
problem scientists say the pressure to
succeed is urgent but caution is
required this product needs to be tested
in a proper placebo control trial and if
we try to take shortcuts against common
scientific processes we could wind up
paying the price asked who is in charge
of this government and private sector
mission the president mentioned his
medical advisers but I think probably
more than anything I'm in charge and I'm
the one that gets blamed and I get
blamed anyway and Kelly there are now
questions about how to test senators as
they come back into session well Jose
the physician for Congress says he does
not have enough tests to screen all 100
senators so the administration offered
to send three of those rapid result
machines and 1000 tests to Congress but
today in a rare joint statement speaker
Pelosi and Majority Leader McConnell
declined that offer saying with the
scarcity of testing those should be
reserved for frontline workers Jose
Kelly O'Donnell at the White House thank
you and now to North Korea and the
the parent sighting in almost three
weeks of the country's leader Kim
jong-un rumors were flying about whether
or not he was even still alive wally
hunter reports there were thunders tears
on Friday when Kim jong-un appeared in
public for the first time in 20 days
according to North Korea's state media
his public appearance comes after weeks
of rumors and speculation about his
pelvis they had three weeks to speak up
to the Fuhrer to deny the claims and
they didn't he could just be that he was
trying to test the world and see how we
responded to see if North Korea was
really relevant still just you know in
the midst of Kovach in the midst of so
many other things that people are trying
to deal with right now u.s. intel hasn't
verified the new video kim was last seen
on April 11th and a few days later for
the first time ever he missed the big
birthday celebrations of his grandfather
Kim il-sung the state founder on April
15 but his long unexplained absence not
without precedence in September of 2014
he went dark for nearly 40 days then
re-emerged with a cane and everytime he
dips out of the public eye questions
arise about succession the fact that Kim
hyun-joong appeared alongside her
brother still indicates to us that she
probably is still in the picture when it
comes to succession and in that new
propaganda video his youngest sister
right there by his side that said
looking at the photos looking at the
video of Kim Java and walking around we
don't cut in a ribbon and then being
surrounded by his officials it shows us
that I think the leadership of Kim
jong-un is going to persist for a while
but for now the 36 year-old supreme
leader still very much at the helm
the Hermit Kingdom Mali joins us from
London and the president Mali is
reacting tonight
that's right Jose so the president
wasn't commenting on all the reports
that he was missing as of last week he's
just tweeted to say I for one am glad to
see he's back and well Jose Mali hunter
in London thank you when we come back
food supply fears the store is now
limiting how much meat you can buy as
prices go even higher also throughout
the broadcast work featuring moments
that unite us like this one a joyful
farewell for the last coated patients
leaving the temporary Army Hospital set
up at a New York Convention Center it
closed up yesterday after treating more
than a thousand patients
putting meat on your family dining table
is getting more expensive than des
coronavirus hits the workers at some
plants packaging it all up it's getting
harder to find as well and if you think
stocking up is the solution some stores
are saying not so fast Kathy Park
explains tonight shoppers may not find
what they're looking for in the meat
aisle with a pandemic hitting parts of
the critical food supply chain closing
down meatpacking facilities disrupting
the way beef pork and poultry end up at
the store there is plenty of food out
there for everybody but it may be spotty
in certain areas now national grocery
chains like Kroger limiting ground meat
and pork purchases Publix placing a cap
on how much chicken you can buy this Bay
Area Costco posting three total per
member according to new data released by
the CDC 19 states across the u.s.
reported outbreaks in their meat
processing plans with nearly 5,000 kovat
cases and 20 deaths this week the
president invoking the defense
production act to keep these operations
going we're worried about this new order
that when the order comes and they
reopen the plan will they tell people to
return to work and those people if they
do return to work may be bringing the
virus back into the planet experts warn
that part of the problem also comes down
to new shopping habits I think a big
part of this is you know recognizing
that we don't truly have a meat shortage
what we have is a very anxious consumer
population people are perhaps concerned
and so they're not just stocking up for
the next two weeks but they're trying to
think what if this isn't available two
weeks from now and so they're maybe
buying three four or five weeks into the
future if you're not finding the meat
you want consider different cuts or meat
alternatives and be open to purchasing
directly from local farms or butcher
shops we thought well we'll get a little
bit more than just
what we need for the next two weeks and
go from there but clearly you know meat
is in demand at New York's Esposito meat
market the demand has doubled in days
prices especially on beef mainly they've
been up about 25 percent and have you
had that gesture phrases the new cost of
doing business
during the coronavirus crisis Kathy Park
NBC News New York
still to come the mysterious new illness
coronavirus is causing in children who
hear from one young girl whose heart
stopped because of it but first there's
this moment of unity from Baptist
College of Health Sciences in Tennessee
a drive-through graduation ceremony for
students to pick up their diplomas
[Music]
we're back now with alarming news every
parent should know about kids and
coronavirus tonight
doctors around the world are meeting
concerned about a rare but potentially
deadly complication they're seeing in
children that could lead to heart
failure dr. John Torres has details 12
year-old Julia Daley emergency airlifted
to a Louisiana hospital after
complaining of stomach pain and at what
point what moment did you know that
something wrong her lips were blue and
her arms were cold her body was going
into shock there she tested positive for
coronavirus and things took a terrifying
turn her heart rate started dropping me
more it went from 40 to 20 to zero and
they called a code and they did two
minutes of CPR on her and thank God they
were able to bring her back Julia
suffered from cardiac arrest her doctors
believe triggered by a new rare
complication of kovat 19 so far there
have been nearly 100 reported cases in
the US and Europe this new shock
syndrome is really a very small tip of a
larger iceberg with some children
reporting a red rash all over their
bodies strikingly similar to an uncommon
childhood illness called Kawasaki
disease how is it different from
Kawasaki disease the body's immune
response is much more exaggerated than
in typical Kawasaki disease and the
heart is the major target with concern
mounting leading doctors from around the
globe joined the World Health
Organization CDC and NIH for a virtual
meeting tonight to exchange information
and investigate the unusual condition
while the nation's top doctors have said
for weeks the children are mostly spared
from coronavirus they do not necessarily
at all get serious disease a new warning
for all parents take this pandemic
seriously and make sure you continue to
social distance we almost lost her
doctor daughter this is very rare but
what should parents be on a lookout for
and Jose until we find out more
information about this condition and
it's paw
what connection to coronavirus parents
should be looking out for these symptoms
fevers rats particularly on the back the
chest or the stomach red eyes or
abdominal pain much like what Juliet
suffered from but overall remember this
is still a rare finding but another
reminder of why we all need to stay safe
Jose dr. John Thornton's thank you very
much we are following other stories this
evening Houston Police are mourning one
of their own following a deadly
helicopter crash today the aircraft went
down in an apartment complex while the
officers were responding to a nearby
incident two officers were on board one
did not survive the NTSB will be
investigating the cause the southern
coast of Puerto Rico was hit by a strong
earthquake today the 5.4 magnitude quake
shook an area about 80 miles southwest
of San Juan damaging businesses and
forcing at least 50 families from their
homes no reports of injuries or deaths
the quake was part of a series of
aftershocks that rattled the area in
recent months the world-champion u.s.
women's soccer team vows it will keep
fighting for equal pay following a major
legal defeat the team's lawsuit was
rejected by a federal judge yesterday
the women's players claim the US Soccer
Federation paid them less than the men's
team for equal work the judge in the
case ruled that the women's lawsuit did
not prove wage discrimination under the
Equal Pay Act through a spokesperson two
players say they will appeal the
decision when we come back I salute the
spectacular sights and sounds up above
for the frontline heroes helping keep us
safe below as
here's there's this moment of unity a
100 year old World War 2 veteran named
Walter Reed was honored by his New York
neighborhood after he won yet another
battle this one with coronavirus
[Music]
there's good news tonight about a show a
force in the skies for angels right here
on earth honoring the frontline workers
putting their own lives on the line
serving our country during this Kovach
crisis high over the National Mall today
a remarkable show of appreciation for
those on the front lines the u.s. Navy
Blue Angels and the Air Force
Thunderbirds together flying over
Baltimore Washington DC and Atlanta to
say thank you to health care workers for
us to get together in this way that
really doesn't happen very often I think
that's a really nice way for us to show
how much they mean to us and giving
everyone watching below a welcome moment
of joy and pride
for Lauren Rick off today's flyover had
special meaning she is a physician's
assistant at well start Kenan stone
Hospital in Atlanta her brother-in-law
Lieutenant Commander Cary Rick off is
one of the Blue Angels pilots soaring
overhead saying thank you to her and all
those fighting the pandemic also hear
from all of my colleagues who were at
the hospital saying that they were all
together watching and how happy they
were and it was just such a special
moment that really touched my heart it's
not just the elite Blue Angels and
Thunderbirds Air Force pilots in
Oklahoma and Air National Guardsmen in
Indiana Louisiana and Kentucky also
streaked across the sky to show their
gratitude those moments on the ground
making it all worth it for the pilots in
the air what has been the reaction what
have you heard from health care workers
about the response on the ground has
been absolutely amazing seeing people
cheering clapping in some cases some
people crying because it's one moment
where they can kind of remove the stress
on their shoulders look up to the skies
and have a moment of inspiration a
message of unity and support for our
health care workers written in this guy
and that's NBC Nightly News for this
Saturday Kate snow will be here tomorrow
i'm jose diaz pilar reporting thank you
for the privilege of your time
please stay safe good night
[Music]
hey NBC News fans thanks for checking
out our YouTube channel subscribe by
clicking on that button down here and
click on any of the videos over here to
watch the latest interviews show
highlights and digital exclusives thanks
for watching